
========================================== Residency question===================

1. I would like to talk about where you live. Describe your house to me. What does it look
like? Where is it located?

I live in a house with my friends in Ha Noi city, the capital of VietNam, We are from different regions in VietNam but for work, we have been staying here for roughly 10 years. My house consist of 4 rooms, living room, bed room, kitchen and bathroom. In the living room we have a fridge, 3 working tables for 3 members, a shoe rack to store our shoes. We plant some small trees for fresh air and we also decorate some flower pictures on the wall. In the bedroom, we have a bed, closet and a small table. My house is 10 kilometters far from my company and it normally takes me 20 minutes to commute. Although my house is not spacious but I really love it and feel peacefull, relax when I stay at home. 

2. Let talk about where you live. Tell me what you like and dont like about your neighborhood.

I live in a house with my friends in Ha Noi city, the capital of VietNam.  Ha Noi is an economic and cultural centre of my country so many people from different regions come and stay here for studying and working. Near my house, there are many grocery store and markets too. So it very covinient for me to buy food and stuff. It's also have a park in my area, I and my friends usually go to the park for walking. My neighbor is very friendly and kind, we often help each other in daily life. But sometime, they annoy me a lot. For example, they usually sing karaoke in the evening, so I can not focus on my work or my personal preference like reading or studying english.

3. Tell me how you first met one of your neighbors. Describe in detail when you met and everything that happend during your first few meetings.

The first time I met my current neighbors was the day I move to my current house. On that day, I carried a lot of lugguages and utensil and when I entered the elevator of the house, I met a girl was stepping out from elevator. After seeing my mess, she helped me to bring my lugguages to my room. that day was a sunny day in the summer and the weather was wery hot. After cleaning the house, we relax a bit and after that I invited her to lunch. We had lunch together and a nice conversation. Then we became friends and neighbor until now. I very appreciate her help. 

4. Tell me what you do with your neighbors. How often do you see them? What do you like to do with them and what do you usually talk about with them?

well, I live in a house consist of 7 floor which is rented from landlord. There are many tenants like me live in the house, I meet them everyday especially when I go out in the morning. We meet each other in the elevator and we talk about life, work or have a small talk. On weekend I and my neighbors usually go to the park that near my house for walking or playing some sports. We also cook dinner together in special occasion like holiday or vacation. Because we are good neighbors so we often help each other in daily life. I very appreciate the relationship.

5. Think back to the day when you moved into the place you live in. When did you move? Did you have anybody who help you? Tell me everything that happend on that moving day.

I remember that day was a sunny day in the last summer, I and my friends moved to new house. The new house is roughly 5 kilometters far way from the old one. Because we have many utensil and stuff like working table, books, and cooking utensils so we have to rent a truck to carry our lugguages. When we arrive the new place, I and my friends bring stuff to the third floor where my room locate. The bulk of lugguages took us a lot of time and energy, we were very tired. Luckyly, a neighbor helped me take care my mess, with his help, the room was arranged quickly. I very appreciate his asistance. We become good neighbor until now and usually help each other in daily life.

6. Tell me what adults and children do together in your neighborhood.

There are many things that adults and children can do together. In my neighborhood people usually share the household chore. For example, adults can cook lunch or dinner while children clean the floor. Beside that, parents can help their children doing homework,reading book, painting, singing or playing some games also can be the good way to increase emotion in family. On the weekend, people usually go to the park or hang out together, they can engage in outside activities, it makes adults and children relax and recharge the battery. I think doing something together is an important part of life to make people more intimate and improve family bonding.

7. Tell me about the responsibilities you had at home when you were a child. What did your parents expect you to do? How did you handle those responsibilities.

When I was a child, my main duty was focusing on studying at school. My parents expected me to become a good student and a good son. I spent most of my time in learning knowledge at school and at home. But out of learning time, I also had to do some household chores like sweep the floor, tidy up my house or wash dishes and feed the pet. I have a younger brother so I had to look after him when my parent was busy. I tought him the knowledge, helped him do homework and played with him. When I get older, I realize that my childhood is a happy time and I very appreciate that time.  

8. When was the last time you went to the neighborhood park? Tell me everything: Where you went, who you went with, what you did, etc.

Oh, the last time I went to the neighborhood park was last sunday. It is a park near my house, perhap it's only 1 kilometter from my house so I can walk there. It is large park with a lake in the center and many tree around.  Last sunday, I went to the park with my homemate. We have become friends since we were in university. We go to the park every weekend for walking and doing exercise. Whenever I go to the park, I feel very relax and comfortable because of fresh air, spacious space and hilarious atmosphere. Many people in my area go there for strolling, riding or playing sports like batminton or football. I think park is an important part of metropolis, it creates a funny evironment for children and citizen.

10. Think about a day when you helped a neighbor or a friend. Explain what the problemwas, What you did to help, and how things turned out.

I live in a house in Ha Noi that is devided into many room and the rooms is rented by tenant. People in the house are come from many regions in my country. So I and my neighbors usually help each other in daily life. But the most memorable moment was last week when my neighbor got sick, she look like tired because of fever and cough. She could not go out to buy medicine beause of rain, and it could make her more tired. so she bothered me to buy medicine for her. I was willing to help her. I went to drug store and bought medicine. After drinking the medicine, she felt better eventually. The next day, she bought a water melon for thank my help. We ate water melon together and had a nice conversation. We have become a good neighborhood until now.


=================House========================================
1. I would like to know where you live. Can you describe your home to me? What does it look like? How many room does it have?

=> Ofcourse, I live in a house with my friends in Ha Noi city. My house consist of 4 rooms, a living room, bedroom, kitchen and bathroom.
In the living room, we have a fridge, 3 working table for 3 members, a shoe rack to store our shoes. We also decorate living room by some flower picture on the wall and some small trees. The trees help my house fresh and cool. In the bedroom, we have a bed with some fluffy pillows, a wardrobe and a window. Bedroom is my favourite room, every time I feel tired and stress, I only need come back home and lie on the bed, take a look through the window and then all stress will be gone. For kitchen and bathroom, we use them several times a day because we spent most of our  time to work at office. We only use kitchen to cook dinner when we come back home. I really love my house, it always make me feel restfull and calm.
==> I live with my friends in a cozy house in HaNoi city, it's a four-room setup: a living room, a bedroom, a kitchen and a bath room. The living room is where we kick back(thư giãn). We've got a fridge, a desk for each of us, and a shoe rack to keep things tidy. We've brightend it up with some flowers paintings and small plants, giving it a refreshing vibe. My favourite is the bedroom -  a comfy bed with fluffy pillows, a wardrobe and a window that lets in the nature energy(cho năng lượng thiên nhiên tràn vào). After a long day, lounging( /laʊndʒ/ - nằm dài) there and gazing(nhìn chằm chằm) out the window melts(làm tan) all my stress away. The kitchen and bathroom are used less since we're mostly at work, but they serve us well when we prepare dinner after a busy day. My home truly is my haven, offering peace and calmness amidst(giữa) the urban hustle(hối hả)      

2. What is your normal routine at home? What do you usually do on weekdays and what do you do on weekends?

=> Because I spent most of my time to work at office, perhap 9 to 10 hours a day. So I only stay in my house in the evining and early morning. After a busy day, I come back home and have dinner with my friends. After that, I usually read a book or watch some video on youtube channel, sometimes I spent time for learning and practicing English and then is bed time. I often go to bed at 11 pm. In the early morning, I always listen music while doing personal hygiene. 
On the weekend, I have more time for myself at home, so I often do house work like tidy up the room, do laundry or cooking. in the afternoon, I usually go to park to do exercise or play football. I also spent time with my friends in the evening, we hang out together and have some smalltalks or play game in the game center. 
That all my routine at home, nothing special but I love it.

3. I would like to know where you live. Talk about the different rooms in your home. Tell me about your favourite room. What do it look like?

Ofcourse, I live in a house with my friends in Ha Noi city. My house consist of 4 rooms, a living room, bedroom, kitchen and bathroom.
I the living room, we have a fridge, 3 working table for 3 members, a shoe rack to store our shoes. We also decorate living room by some flower picture on the wall and some small trees. The trees help my house fresh and cool. In the bedroom, we have a bed with some fluffy pillows, a wardrobe and a window. Bedroom is my favourite room, every time I feel tired and stress, I only need come back home and lie on the bed, take a look through the window and then all stree will be gone. For kitchen and bathroom, we use them several times a day because we spent most of our  time to work at office. We only use kitchen to cook dinner when we come back home. I really love my house, it always make me feel restfull and calm.

4. What kinds of things do you do to keep your house clean and confortable. What kinds of housework do you do at home?

well, I always desire to live in a fresh environment so I always try to keep my house clean. Everyday, when I just wake up, I will tidy up my bed, make everything neatly. I have a shoe rack to store our shoe, every time I come back home, I put my shoe to shoe rack immediately before stepping in to the house. I also buy some stuff to do household chores like bloom, mop or laundry basket. I usually sweep the floor everyday, do laundry 3 times a week. Beside that, I also scrub the toilet and the sink frequently. To keep the house cool and fresh, I plant some small tree on the table in the room, they help me purify the air and create green environment. I thinks clean and fresh environment is very important to keep and improve the quality of life. It also improve the health and make a better life.

5. I would like to talk about where you live. Tell me about the different responsibilities in you home. Who is responsibility for what? How are these thing done?

I live in a house with my two friends, we become friend when we met at university. Until now, we live together for 3 years. The responsibilities is delegate for every member equally and  distinctly. For example, I often cook dinner on weekends, while my friens will cook diner on weekday. In my house, we have some household chores like, cooking diner, doing laundry or tidying up the room. So, everyday, while a member prepare dinner, others member will be incharge of cleaning the house, or arrange stuff in the house. Afer finish dinner, a member washing dishes, another member will do laundry or throw the waste. I think everybody live in the house should have their own responsibility to meke the better life.




=====================Movie==============================

1. What kinds of movie do you like to watch? Why do you like those type of movie?
Actually, watching movie is one of my hobbies. I often watch movie every weekend. I have watched many types of movie but my favourite type is cartoon.
Cartoon with vivid image and nice story and cute actions completely attract me. Beside that, I also feel happy and funny everytime I watch this kind of movie. Most of cartoon film make me feel joyfull and relax after a busy week. Cartoon is common type for children and is an important memory in their childhood . Although I am an adult but I also like this type, it's really fascinating. The last cartoon movie that I watch recently was Lion King, it is a famous film in the world and it left lasting impression on me.


=> Actually, watching movies is one of my favorite hobbies, and I usually spend time doing it on weekends. Over the years, I’ve explored many genres, but my favorite type is animated films. I find cartoons especially appealing because of their vivid visuals, imaginative storylines, and charming characters. These elements always capture my attention and make the experience enjoyable.
Whenever I watch an animated movie, I feel relaxed and cheerful. It’s a great way to unwind after a busy week. Although cartoons are often considered suitable for children, I believe they have universal appeal. In fact, many animated films carry meaningful messages and emotional depth that resonate with adults as well.
One of the most memorable cartoon movies I’ve seen recently is The Lion King. It’s a globally famous film, and it left a lasting impression on me. The story, music, and animation were all beautifully done, and I was deeply moved by the themes of family, courage, and responsibility. That’s why I continue to enjoy animated films—they’re not only entertaining but also meaningful.


2. Tell me when do you went the movie recently? who do you go with? How was that day? What do you do before and after.

Last week, my friends and I went to the movies. That day, after finishing work on Friday, we decided to watch a movie to relax after a busy week. The film we chose was a Vietnamese film named “The Face of Six: Ticket of Destination”. It is the latest episode in the film series. Because the film lasted 3 hours, we had to eat dinner before the film began. After that, we had a nice time at the movies. The film was very fascinating and attracted many audiences. When the film finished, we hung out for a bit before going home. We discussed the content of the film, had some small talk, and said goodbye to each other afterward. That day was a nice day for me; after watching the film, all my stress was gone, and I felt very comfortable.

=> Last Friday, after finishing work, my friends and I decided to go to the movies to unwind after a hectic week. We chose to watch a Vietnamese film called The Face of Six: Ticket of Destination, which is the latest installment in the series. Since the movie was nearly three hours long, we grabbed dinner beforehand at a nearby restaurant. The food was great, and it gave us time to catch up before the show.
The movie itself was captivating—it had a gripping storyline and impressive performances, and the theater was packed with people. After the film ended, we hung out for a while, chatting about the plot and sharing our thoughts. We also talked about our weekend plans and other random things before heading home.
Overall, it was a really enjoyable evening. Spending time with friends and watching a good movie helped me relax and forget about the stress from work. I went to bed that night feeling refreshed and in a much better mood.


3. Tell me about memorable movie that you watch in the pass. what was that about? What was special about the movie?

Well, I have watched a lot of movie when I was a child until now. The film that impressed me the most is Hary Potter series. The first time I watched it was 3 years ago, when I was still in university. It is the film that was tranfered from a classic novel consist of 7 books and the film includes 7 episodes respectively. Every episodes has it own story but seamlessly in content.  Harry potter talk about a witch name Harry Potter and his friens. They undergo the tough time together in acedamy and become close friends. The film fascinated me because of appealling content, vivid image and warming meaning. I was also impressed by actors and actress in the film. I very admire Emma watson in Hermoine character, she is an intellacture and goergous, talented person. She acctully is a prime actress. I really love this film, sometimes when I have time, I watch Harry Potter again.   

=> I have watched many movies from my childhood to the present. The series that has impressed me the most is the Harry Potter series. I first watched it three years ago while I was still in university. It is a film series adapted from a classic set of seven novels, and correspondingly, the film series includes seven episodes. Each episode has its own story, yet they all connect seamlessly. Harry Potter is about a wizard named Harry Potter and his friends. They endure challenging times together at the academy and become close friends. The film captivated me with its appealing content, vivid imagery (/ˈɪm.ə.dʒər.i/), and heartwarming message. I was also impressed by the actors and actresses in the film. I particularly admire Emma Watson in her role as Hermione; she is an intellectual, gorgeous, and talented person. She truly is a prime actress. I really love this film, and sometimes, when I have time, I watch Harry Potter again.

4. talk about new story about favourite actor or actress that you watch recently, start by talk about her or his background and then describe  detail news about.
	
	I have watched many movies and there are many actors or actresses left lasting impression on me but I admire Emma Watson the most, so I followed her for a period of time. 
	Emma Waston is a British actress, she is renowed for the role in Hermione character in Harry Potter film serry. Emma Waston is recognized as a talented actress, she is beautiful, kind and friendly. She has received multiple awards for her performances and is admired for her ability.
	
	Recently, Waston made attraction for her role in the groundbreaking film “Before you” which has been praised for its innovative storytelling and powerful performances. The film mentions important social issues and has sparked(evoke) conversations worldwide. Off-screen, Waston is actively involved in various charities and uses her platform to advocate for environmental conservation.


5. Compare movie's made today and in the pass. How movie change, the difference and similarity.

	I have watched many movies when I was a child until now. Movies have evolved significantly over time.
	At first, in the pass because of lack in technology so most of movies was made without colour and rely on practical effect. 
	Where as, for modern film, with the development of technology, they use advanced digital effect. In terms of visuallization, modern film with vivid image and diverse effect attract more audiences than old film.
	Another different point when compare movie that made today and in the pass is about production. The process of making film in present has become more streamlined with digital technology. For old movies, they was made by analog methods.
	
	When it comes to similarity. Both modern and old movies have various topic such as love, war, casual life and so on. Moreover, the content and meaning of the movies is almost similar. The emotional impact in film is the same when they bring emotion to audiences and connect with audiences.
	No matter when the films was made but they often reflect  the culture and value at their time.
	
	In general, with the development of technology and the change in human's demand. The change of movies come as natural development and movies is still the seventh art in the world and is an essential part of life.


6. topic movie discuss when talk to friends, why topic concern you and friends, what make them so important. 

	My friends and I have watched many types of movies, and after filming time or when we gather together, we often talk about films. The most attractive movie topic is about love. We usually discuss the content of movies on love topics because this topic is also our concern. As you know, my friends and I are in our twenties, so at this age, we care a lot about love and emotions. Films on this topic attract us because of their fascinating stories, helpful lessons, and even the appearance of actors or actresses. This topic is important to us because we can learn some lessons from films and apply them to real life. I think the content and situations in films are quite similar to life. In addition to love topics, we also like other kinds of movies such as science fiction or horror movies. They bring us different emotions and are also interesting. I often go to the movies once a month.
	
	
	
================================ Music=================

1. What kinds of musics do you listen to? Who is your favourite musican or composer.

=> Well, I'm the kinds of person who can listen to music all day. I listen many music genres but I like Pop music the most. Pop is quite popular in my country because of catchy melody and lyrical. This type of music bring audiences confortable and relaxation when listening. In the Pop genre, I admire many musican and composer and singer. Although I am  Vietnamese, my favourite composer is Taylor swift. She is American singer and composer with bright appearance and powerful voice. She alsway burn the stage by her performances. She has many famous song and widespread in the world. I have been listening her music for a long time. Beside that, she is a gorgeous and kind woman. Many audiences in the world admire her ability. I usually listen music in the moring when I just wake up and do my personal hygiene. Music provide me energy for a long working day. I also listen to music in the evening when I want to relax after a busy day. I really love music and it is an important part of my life.

=> Well, I'm the kind of person who can listen to music all day. I enjoy a variety of genres, but Pop music is definitely my favorite. It's very popular in my country because of its catchy melodies and relatable lyrics. Pop music helps listeners feel relaxed and uplifted, which is why I find it so appealing.
Among Pop artists, I admire many singers and composers, but my favorite is Taylor Swift. Although I’m Vietnamese, I’ve been a fan of her music for a long time. She’s an American singer-songwriter known for her powerful voice and captivating performances. She always lights up the stage with her energy and charisma. Her songs are famous worldwide, and I think her ability to connect with audiences is truly impressive. Besides her musical talent, she’s also known for being kind and graceful, which makes her even more admirable.
I usually listen to music in the morning while getting ready for the day—it gives me energy and puts me in a good mood. In the evening, I listen to music to unwind after a busy day. Music plays an important role in my life, and I honestly can’t imagine a day without it.


2. Pick two types of music or composer. Describe detail as posible the difference and similarity between two type.

- well, to be honest I love music very much. I listening music every day. The music types that I often listen are rap and ballads. They are very different in style. when it come to ballads, It has catchy and slight sense in lyric. Ballads is the most common music type in my country. It fit to many type of audience from teenager to the older. When listenning ballads, audience usually feel the calmness. But in terms of Rap, it has fast flow in lyric and melody. Rap almostly like speaking but faster a bit and rap have rhythm. This music type is often aimed at the young generation. For me I can listen and feel both of them, depend on circumstances. Both type of music bring emotion to audiences and connect audiences. All music genres have their own value and characteristic, each type is fit for defferent audiences.

=> Well, to be honest, I love music and listen to it every day. Two genres I often enjoy are rap and ballads, and although they’re quite different in style, both have unique qualities that I appreciate.
Ballads usually have slow, emotional melodies and meaningful lyrics. In my country, ballads are very popular because they appeal to a wide range of listeners—from teenagers to older adults. When I listen to ballads, I often feel calm and reflective. The lyrics tend to focus on love, memories, or personal stories, which makes them easy to relate to.
Rap, on the other hand, is much faster in rhythm and lyrical flow. It’s almost like speaking, but with a strong beat and rhythm. Rap often expresses bold opinions or social messages, and it’s especially popular among younger audiences. I enjoy rap because it’s energetic and powerful—it can really motivate me when I need a boost.
Even though these two genres are different in tempo and style, they both have the ability to connect with listeners emotionally. Depending on my mood or the situation, I switch between them. I believe every music genre has its own value and can speak to different people in different ways

3. When and where you listening music, Do you listen to radio, go to concert. Tell me details about the ways you enjoy listen to music.

- Actually I'm the kind of person who can listen to music all day, both at home or ouside. At home I usually listen to music in the morning when I just wake up. Music help me concious and provide me energy for a long day. Beside that, I also listen to music in the evening, especially when I need to relax after a busy day. When I stay outside I often listen to music when I need to focus on working. I prefer listening music via youtube channel or music tool like spotify or mp3 rather than radio or going to concert because I only need to connect to internet to listen music on those platform. Whereas going to concert normally takes time so I only go to concert at weekend when I have time. I think music is an important part of life, atleast for me. Music help me a lot, it make me feel comfortable and relax. Everytime I listen to music, all my stress is gone.


=>
Actually, I’m the kind of person who can listen to music all day, whether I’m at home or outside. At home, I usually start my morning with music right after I wake up. It helps me feel more alert and gives me energy for the day ahead. In the evening, I often listen to music to unwind and relax after a busy day.
When I’m outside, I tend to listen to music while working or studying, especially when I need to concentrate. I prefer using platforms like YouTube, Spotify, or MP3 players rather than listening to the radio or going to concerts. These apps are convenient because I just need an internet connection to access my favorite songs. Concerts, on the other hand, take more time and planning, so I usually go only on weekends when I have free time.
For me, music is a vital part of life. It helps me feel comfortable and relaxed. Whenever I listen to music, I feel like all my stress disappears. It’s more than just entertainment—it’s something that keeps me balanced and motivated throughout the day.

4. When do you interest in music, what music type you like at first. Tell about how your music interesting develope from child until now.

- to be honest, I have loved music for a long time, when I was a child and in shool. I the past I often listen children's music because it was fit for my age at that time. This music type with naive(innocent) and funny melodies has attracted children a lot. At that time, I usually listen to music via radio or television. But now when I get older, I listen many others type of music such as Pop, ballad, rock and so on. Differrent from the past, now I listen music via many platforms, I can listen to music on youtube channel, by mp3 player or on social media. With the development of technology and electric devices, I can listen to music easily. I often listen to music in the morning when I just wake up, it provides me energy for a working day. In addtion to, I also listen music in my free time, it makes me feel restful and comfortable. Music bring me a private world and I can imerse myself in my tiny world.

=> To be honest, I’ve been interested in music since I was a child, especially during my school years. Back then, I mostly listened to children's songs because they were suitable for my age. These songs had innocent and cheerful melodies that really appealed to kids. I usually listened to music through the radio or television, which were the main sources available at the time.
As I grew older, my taste in music expanded. Now, I enjoy a wide variety of genres such as pop, ballad, and rock. Unlike the past, I can access music through many modern platforms like YouTube, MP3 players, and social media. Thanks to the development of technology and electronic devices, listening to music has become much easier and more convenient.
I often start my day by listening to music in the morning—it gives me energy and helps me feel motivated for work. I also listen during my free time because it helps me relax and feel more comfortable. Music creates a personal space for me, where I can immerse myself and escape from daily stress. It’s like entering my own little world.

5. Think back the time you listen live music, when, where, who were you with, what happend made that performances so memorable. 

Well, this was an event that happened a year ago. A concert was organized at the stadium near my house. My friends and I decided to join the concert after considering carefully because we have to pay for the tickets. We prepared thoughtfully for that event and planned to go there early because the singer is our idol. But when we came there, the stadium was filled by people. It took us about fifteen minutes to find space to enjoy performances. When the atmosphere was fun and people were dancing together, it suddenly rained. But we didn't care about it; the crowd was still dancing and enjoying the performances. That night was a memorable moment that I will never forget.

=> One of the most memorable live music experiences I had was about a year ago. A famous singer—who happens to be my idol—held a concert at the stadium near my house. My friends and I decided to go, even though the tickets were a bit expensive. After some careful planning, we arrived early to get good seats, but the stadium was already packed with excited fans.
It took us around fifteen minutes to find a spot where we could enjoy the show. The atmosphere was incredible—everyone was singing along and dancing. Then, out of nowhere, it started to rain. Surprisingly, no one left. The crowd kept dancing, and the energy only got stronger. We were soaked, but it didn’t matter. That night was magical, and it’s a moment I’ll never forget.


6. What new electronic tool or product concert people listening music recently. What do the produce excite them and why?

There are many applications or tools for listening to music nowadays, but Spotify is the tool that become more popular these day. I am also using this tool. It surely is a wonderful tool for people who like music. I use it every day, both at home and outside. Spotify with friendly user interface and convinient user experiences is attract a lot of audiences. Moreover is has a free version for user, this application provides user variety of album and song of many famous singer in the world. Spotify update list song in realtime and the quality of song is also at prime level. Until now, this application reached over 10 milion download and installation. It is amazing number. I think spotify is a best music application at this time and it might be more popular.


==================Park=============================

1. What kind of park you like to visit. what is the park look like?

near my house, there is a community park. It is also my favourite park. The park is approximately 1 kilometer from my house, so I often go there on weekends. It is a spacious park with a lake in the center and is surrounded by a path and many green trees. The park is equipped with a lot of equipment for exercise and play. Every day, many people in my area come there and do exercise. They can engage in many activities or sports, like badminton, football, walking, or even hanging out with friends and family. Because the park was established a long time ago, people in the area really appreciate and treasure the park. the park is deeply connected with our daily life and is an important part of our life. Every time I feel tired, I only need to go to the park and take a deep breath and take a walk, all stress will be gone. 

= There’s a community park located about one kilometer from my house, and it’s my favorite place to unwind. I usually go there on weekends to relax and recharge. The park is quite spacious, with a serene lake at its center, surrounded by walking paths and lush green trees that provide shade and a peaceful atmosphere.
What makes this park special is its multifunctional design. It’s equipped with various exercise machines and play structures, making it suitable for people of all ages. Residents often gather there to engage in activities like badminton, football, jogging, or simply spending time with friends and family. It’s not just a recreational space—it’s a social hub for the community.
Since the park was established many years ago, it has become deeply woven into our daily lives. People in the neighborhood truly value it, and it holds sentimental meaning for many of us. Whenever I feel stressed or overwhelmed, I take a walk there, breathe in the fresh air, and instantly feel more at ease. For me, the park is more than just a physical space—it’s a source of comfort and connection.

2. When was the last time you went to the neighborhood park? Tell me everything: Where
you went, who you went with, what you did, etc.
	
	Because it is summer at this time of year so many people in my area go to the park to relax or doing outside activities as walking, running, playing football or riding. There are many children in the park too, they can play with their parent or play with other children. The park is quite spacious with a lake in the center, aisle and trees around. I go to the park every weekend for exercise and improving health and the last time I went to the neighborhood park was last saturday. I went with my homemate for playing badminton.  When arrived the park, we played badminton first in roughly thirty minutes and running a bit until we felt tired,then we had a walk together around the lake. The atmosphere was quite bustle and noisy but the air was so fresh and cool because of wind blowing. We went back home after that and felt so comfort. I think park is very important today especially for urban area when population is increase and the green space is gradually narrowed day by day.
	
=> Since it's summer now, many people in my neighborhood go to the park to relax or enjoy outdoor activities like walking, running, playing football, or cycling. The park is quite spacious, with a lake in the center, walking paths, and trees surrounding it. There are always many children playing—either with their parents or with other kids—which makes the atmosphere lively.
I usually go to the park every weekend to exercise and stay healthy. The last time I went was last Saturday. I went with my housemate to play badminton. When we arrived, we played for about thirty minutes, then did a short run until we felt tired. After that, we walked around the lake and chatted. Although the park was bustling and a bit noisy, the air was fresh and cool thanks to the breeze.
We returned home feeling relaxed and refreshed. I believe parks are especially important in urban areas, where the population is growing and green spaces are gradually disappearing. They provide a place for people to connect with nature, exercise, and unwind from the stress of city life.

3. Pick two park you know and tell me the similarity and difference.

	I’ve had the chance to visit many parks, including both community parks and national parks in my country. These two types of parks share several similarities, but they also have some important differences.
First of all, both community parks and national parks are designed for public enjoyment and serve people across the country. Typically, they feature a lake in the center surrounded by many trees, which help provide fresh air and regulate the temperature. Both types of parks are spacious and equipped with various facilities for exercise and relaxation.
However, there are also some key differences. National parks are usually owned and managed by the government, and they attract not only local citizens but also international visitors. The number of national parks is limited, while community parks are more common—almost every province or district has at least one. Another difference is that national parks often require an entrance fee, whereas community parks are free to access. Most importantly, the main purpose of national parks is to protect the environment, including plants and animals, while community parks focus more on recreation and daily activities.
These are the main points I would highlight when comparing community parks and national parks.

	
4. Tell me about the memorable experiences you had at park, maybe it was special event or something unexpected happend. Start by talking about the background when and where, and then give me detail about what happend.

Actually, I had gone to the park many times in the past, I usually go to the park on weekend for walking and doing exercise. Therefore I have a lot of momorable moment at park. The one that left me lasting impression was happened at my neighborhood park. Last month, I went to the community park near my house to walk as normal but on that day, I forgot to bring water by my side. So after an hours walking, I feel very tired and thirsty. I was dying for water but there is no grocery store, so I could not buy a bottle of water. Fortunately, when I was so exhausted, a girl come in front of me with a bottle of water, She asked me to drink water, I could not reject her invitaion because of thirsty. I drank water and feel better after that. I said thank to her, she actually save my life at that time. Then we got acquainted and walk together in a while. I asked her information and we become close friends now. 

5. How do you first go to the parks? why do you go to parks now?

Actually, I have just gone to the park for few years recently when I start studying at university in Ha Noi city. I was born and growth in a rural area of VietNam. In my area, we have no parks, so I did have chance to go to park at that time. When I come to Ha Noi to study, I just saw parks the first time. At first I go to the park for relaxing or hanging out with friendsin the afternoon when I finish learning at university. But now, park become an important part of my life. I usually go to park to do exercise or walking or playing sport with friends. It make me feel relax and comfortable after a busy day. Every time I feel tired, I just need to go to park and walk for while and take a deep breath, then all my stress will be gone. I my living area in Ha Noi now, we have a spacious park. Every afternoon, many people both children and adult come there and walking or doing exercise. 

6. Compare activity that children do at park to activity that adults to at park? How facilities for children and adults different?

There is a community park near my house, every afternoon many people both children and adults come there and do outside activities. Normally, adults will engage in some activities like playing badminton, football or volleybal in the park, they can do exercise alone or in a group. whereas  Parks are wonderful places for children to engage in various activities. children usually play around the park with others children, they can fly a kite,have a picnic or  climb, swing, slide, and play on the equipment. Otherwise children can explore nature in the park. 
Facilities in the park is quite diverse, For adutls they often do exercise or do Gym with some fitness equipment. Beside that they can do running in the walking loops. Some  facilities for children can be named as playground, swing or picnic area.

=================Walk=========================
1. You indicate in the survey that you like to take walk, talk about the thing you do when you go for walk. Where do you normally go, how do you feel after walk.

	Yes, walk is one of my hobbies. Every weekend, I go to the park that nears my house to walk. Normally, when I go to the park, I spend an hour to walk around the lake that is in the center of the park. While doing walking, I often listen to music, podcast. It makes me feel relax a lot. Because the park is spacious and there are many things in the park so I also often observe nature like paying attention to birds, trees or other nature elements. After walk, I engage in other actities in the park like playing foot ball or badminton with friends. The atmosphere in the park is very clean and fresh so I also take deep breath and enjoy in calmness and serenity there. Every time I finish walking, I feel tired but I know that, it is good for health, walking is an interesting sport, it help me increase health, build a nice body shape. 
	
2. tell me the last time you went for walk, where did you go and what happend, what did you prepare and what did you do after done.

	I am a person who like outside activities so I often engage in many sport and walking is one of them. The last time I went for a walk was last weekend. There is a community park near my house, I often go there to walk with my friends. Before walk I need to prepare my sneaker, a bottle of water because walking can take a lot of my energy and cause thirsty. Beside that, I also need to perpare a towel in order to wipe sweat when walking. Normally I spend an hour to walk around the lake that is in the center of the park. While doing walking, I often listen to music, podcast. It makes me feel relax a lot. Because the park is spacious and there are many things in the park so I also often observe nature like paying attention to birds, trees or other nature elements.  After walk I take a rest before coming home. After that, I take a shower and have dinner. After every time walking, I feel stronger and comfortable. Walk is an interest sport, it help me increase my health and keep a compact body.
	
3. Tell me why you take walk the first place, how is your interesting taking walk change over the years, why do you walk now. 

	Actually walk is one of my favourite sport today but in the past is not. At the first time I take walk, I feel very tired when walking, I only could do walk in a short time, my walking progress at that time was not stable and I used to want to give up. But I know that walk is an helpful sport because it is not only a cheap sport, it also help me increase my health and help me build a nice body shape. Therefore, I try to keep walk every day. Now I can walk in a long term without stopping in the middle of session and  walk is an important part of my life. Walk brings me a lot of benefit beside health. I had a chance to join a walk club in my area and then I had opportunity to meet and become friend with many wonderful persons. 
	

============== Travel ==================

1. You indicated in the survey that you take vacations domestically. Tell me some place you like to travel and why you like going there?

=> Yes, I really like traveling and I used to travel to many regions in my country. Because I live in the north side so I like to travel to others areas in mid side or south side of country. Some famous place that I often choose when traveling are Hue, Da Nẵng or Ho Chi Minh city. Those places attract me by many things, each place has their own beauty and signature. For example, Hue is recognized as one of the most romantic province in VietNam, Da Nang with a long and wonderful coast is a coastal city that always in my priority. Whereas HCM city is famous with bustling life, delicious food and many beautiful attraction. All of above place fascinate me by strange life style which I can not enjoy in normal life. Beside three place named before, I also have chance to come others provice and city in my country. I hope I can travel to all place in VietNam. They absolutely worth trying.

=> I really enjoy traveling within Vietnam, and I’ve had the chance to visit many regions. Since I live in the north, I often choose destinations in the central or southern parts of the country. Some of my favorite places include Hue, Da Nang, and Ho Chi Minh City.
Hue is known for its romantic atmosphere and historical charm. Da Nang, with its stunning coastline, is a peaceful coastal city that I always prioritize. In contrast, Ho Chi Minh City offers a vibrant lifestyle, delicious food, and countless attractions.
What fascinates me most is how each city has its own unique culture and rhythm, which I don’t experience in my daily life. Besides these three, I’ve also explored other provinces and hope to visit every corner of Vietnam someday—it’s truly worth discovering.



2. Tell me about the things you do in order to prepare the trip.

=> Before every trip I have many thing to do to have an interesting trip. At first I have to make a plan for a trip. It can be about the place that I will stay in the trip, or the vehicel that I will use, what food I will eat and so on. After that, I book a ticket for plane or train depend on the place where I travel to. When the date approach, I usually prepare clothes, shoes, personal stuff. If it is a summer trip I always to carry sunglasses by my side. Whereas If I travel in winter, I often prepare a thick coat or sweater. Some times I do travel alone, and sometimes, I do travel with my friends. I really like traveling, it help me relax a lot after working days, it is neccessary to recharge the battery and refresh my life. 


=> Before every trip, I have many things to prepare to make the experience enjoyable. First, I create a travel plan that includes where I’ll stay, how I’ll get there, and what I want to eat. Then, I book transportation—either a plane or train—depending on the destination.
As the departure date approaches, I pack clothes, shoes, and personal items. If it’s a summer trip, I always bring sunglasses. In winter, I make sure to pack warm clothes like a thick coat or sweater.
Sometimes I travel alone, but I often go with friends. Traveling helps me relax after busy workdays. It’s a great way to recharge and refresh my mind.


4. Traveling can be kinds of many interesting, funny and unexpected experiences. Tell me one experience that unforgetable.Start by telling when it happend, where you were and who you were with and then tell details about what happend made that experiences memorable.
=>
One of the most unforgettable travel experiences I’ve had happened last winter when my family and I visited Da Nang, a coastal city in central Vietnam. We started our trip from Hanoi, which was in the middle of its cold season, so we assumed Da Nang would be just as chilly. Based on that assumption, we packed lots of warm clothes—coats, jackets, and sweaters—to stay comfortable during our vacation.
However, when we arrived in Da Nang, we were completely surprised by the weather. It was sunny and warm, more like summer than winter. The clothes we brought were too heavy and uncomfortable to wear, so we had to go shopping for lighter outfits. Although it was unexpected, this change turned out to be a fun part of the trip.
After getting new clothes, we spent the rest of our vacation enjoying the beautiful beaches, trying delicious local dishes, and exploring the city’s culture and natural scenery. One of my favorite moments was swimming in the clear ocean water and relaxing on the sandy shore. Even though the trip started with a bit of confusion, it ended up being one of the most memorable vacations I’ve ever had.


5. You indicated in the survey that you take vacations domestically. People said that traveling is more difficult than the past 5 years. Tell me the type of changes you observe while traveling and how these change affected traveler.

=> Yes, I usually take vacations within my country, and I’ve noticed several changes in domestic travel over the past five years. One major difference is the cost. Everything—from food and transportation to accommodation and activities—has become more expensive. This increase in prices makes it harder for travelers to enjoy their trips without worrying about their budget.
Another change is the quality of services. In many places, even though travelers are paying more, the service doesn’t always meet expectations. Sometimes, the staff is less attentive, or the facilities are not well maintained, which can lead to disappointing experiences.
Environmental issues have also become more noticeable. Pollution caused by human activities has affected many tourist attractions. Some natural sites are no longer as beautiful as they used to be, and this leaves a negative impression on visitors. Because of this, people often think carefully before choosing a destination—they want to avoid places that might not offer a pleasant experience.
Despite these challenges, I still believe traveling is a wonderful activity. It helps people relax, recharge, and discover new cultures and landscapes. With a bit of planning, travelers can still enjoy meaningful and memorable trips.



6. You responded in the survey that you go on vacations internationally. I would like you to 
describe one of the countries or cities you have visited. What was it like over there and 
What kind of impression did you get from the locals?

=> Last summer, I had the opportunity to go on an international vacation, and I chose Singapore as my destination. This island country in Southeast Asia left a lasting impression on me

Singapore is well recognized as one of the most clean countries in the world.
 When I took my first step in Singapore, I was so impressed by their environment. The weather there is cool because this country is covered by the ocean, and there are many green trees too. It's difficult to find trash on the road or in public places. Singapore has a thriving economy, so their services are very good and satisfy tourists. There is also diversity in food, especially seafood. The dishes are also tasty and delicious. The locals's awareness is also at a high level; they're generous, kind, and hospitable. Tourists can travel by train in Singapore with a ticket card without constraints. But because of prime services and food, the price there is a bit expensive. But I think it is worth trying. I think Singapore is an ideal place for traveling and relaxing. I was totally impressed with the environment, weather, and food there.

=> "Last summer, I had the opportunity to go on an international vacation, and I chose Singapore as my destination. This island country in Southeast Asia left a lasting impression on me.

Upon arriving in Singapore, I was immediately struck by its pristine environment. The city-state is renowned for its cleanliness, and it’s evident everywhere—from the streets to public spaces. The lush greenery(cây xanh), including numerous trees, adds to the pleasant atmosphere.

The weather in Singapore is delightful. Being surrounded by the ocean, the country enjoys a cool climate. As I explored, I noticed the absence of litter on the roads and sidewalks—a testament to the locals’ commitment to cleanliness.

Singapore’s thriving economy translates into excellent services for tourists. Whether it’s transportation, dining, or accommodation, everything is well-organized and efficient. Speaking of dining, the food scene is diverse and tantalizing. Seafood dishes, in particular, are a highlight, and I savored every bite.

The locals are incredibly hospitable. Their awareness of environmental issues and kindness toward visitors impressed me. Tourists can conveniently travel around Singapore using a ticket card for the efficient train system.

Admittedly, Singapore’s prime services and culinary delights come at a cost—the prices can be a bit high. However, I firmly believe that the experience is worth it. For travelers seeking a blend of relaxation and exploration, Singapore is an ideal destination. I left with fond memories of the environment, weather, and delectable food."

7. Can you describe for me some of the things that you enjoy doing on your vacation?
	I think not only for me but also others, the things that I enjoy in vacation are experience and relaxation. Many things I can do on vacation, for example, I can travel for sight seeing, trying delicious food or find experience which I can not try in normal life.
	Normally, I usually combine above things in my vacation. When I travel to another country or another region, I often want to learn about the culture and locals's attraction. Beside that, tasting signature dishes and get the strange feeling is also in my plan. 
	Others things that I can do are swiming in the ocean or climbing the mountain depend on the place I go to. I actually love vacations, they help me relax and healing after busy working days. Vacations also provided me energy for my life.
	
	
	=> I believe that not only I, but also others, enjoy two key aspects of vacations: experience and relaxation. During my time off, I engage in various activities. For instance, I explore new sights, savor delicious food, and seek out unique experiences that aren’t part of my everyday life.

Typically, I combine these elements during my vacations. When I travel to another country or region, I’m eager to immerse myself in the local culture and explore attractions that resonate with the locals. Additionally, I make it a point to taste signature dishes and embrace the unfamiliar.

Furthermore, depending on the destination, I might swim in the ocean or climb mountains. Vacations provide me with much-needed relaxation and healing after busy workdays, replenishing my energy for daily life."
	
	
8. Can you tell me what steps you have to take to get your destination on a trip? Tell me 
what you do from the moment you leave your house to the moment you check into your 
hotel your destination

9.  When people think about traveling to other countries, what may be some of the things 
they are most interested in? Why do you think these things are of such interest to 
travelers
 Describe some of things that you like to do with the people you visit or see during your 
vacation.

=> Today, traveling between different regions or countries is quite popular. People often consider traveling to other countries when they want to experience a new environment, learn about different cultures, or explore the world. Traveling to other countries can provide tourists with fresh feelings, unique experiences, and knowledge that they cannot gain from domestic travel. Additionally, delicious food and beautiful landscapes serve as additional incentives. When I travel to a new area, I often take pictures with people and engage in conversations with locals to gain a deeper understanding about the culture there. I also seek out native recommendations for signature dishes and famous restaurants in the area. Immersing myself in the local life style is always a priority.

10. Could you describe your most memorable camping trip? Maybe something funny, unexpected or challenging happened. Start by telling me when and where you were camping and who you were with.

Of course, I’ve had the chance to go camping with my friends many times, and the most memorable experience was last year. My colleagues and I went camping during our summer vacation. The camping area is located 20 kilometers from Hanoi, where we live. We started our trip at 8 am and arrived at the destination by 9. Upon arrival, we prepared food for lunch. Our plan was to have grilled chicken as the main dish, along with salad and other side dishes. However, when we cut into the chicken, we discovered that it was still raw. Despite our hunger, we had to grill the chicken again, and after an additional 30 minutes, we were finally able to taste our meal. It was a memorable experience and a valuable lesson for us.”


================= Healthy======================

1. Tell me the kinds of foods, healthy people eat. What kinds of food are they and where do they buy healthy food?

Eating healthy is become more popular today. More and more people care about their health and choose healthy life style. Having a balanced diet is one of the best way to improve their health. Normally people who eat healthy will choose clean, organic food that are free of chemicals and pesticides. Some kinds of food that are good for health can be named as vegetables, fruits, and nutritious cereals. These category of food provide people all the vital nutrients as their demand. These food can help people strengthen their muscle and maintain their energy. In addition, healthy people try to stay away from processed food and sugar or fast food. Some place they can buy healthy food are famous grocery store, supermarket or local farmer market. Those place supply various clean food and satisfy customer. I think healthy lifestyle is really effective for our health, people should follow this style to enhance and maintain good health.

=> Healthy eating has become increasingly popular in recent years. Many people are paying more attention to their health and choosing a healthier lifestyle. One of the most effective ways to improve health is by maintaining a balanced diet. People who eat healthily often choose clean, organic foods that are free from chemicals and pesticides. Common examples include fresh vegetables, fruits, and whole grains like nutritious cereals. These types of food provide essential nutrients that help strengthen muscles and maintain energy throughout the day.
In addition, healthy individuals tend to avoid processed foods, sugary snacks, and fast food. Instead, they prefer natural options that support long-term wellness. They usually buy healthy food from well-known grocery stores, supermarkets, or local farmers’ markets. These places offer a wide variety of fresh and clean products that meet customers’ needs.
Overall, I believe that living a healthy lifestyle is very beneficial. It helps people feel better, stay active, and prevent many health problems. Everyone should try to follow this way of living to improve their quality of life.


2. Describe a healthy person you know up. What make that person healthy? Tell me everything make that person healthier.

Healthy lifestyle is popular today and many people around me have been followed this style and one of my friends is an example. He is a person who always try to keep the good health. He eat healthy every day, he usually choose clean and organic food for his meal. Some kinds of food can be name as vegetables,fruits, nutritious food and cereals. He always say no to fast food and processed food. Beside that he do exercise every afternoon. Sometimes, he go the gym at fitness center, sometimes he walk in the park. Sleeping diet is also important, He usually go to bed early at 11pm and get up at 5am. Eating healthy and keep balance in life help him improve health and maintain a nice body shape. I very admire his discipline. He also inspire me alot in staying healthy.

=> One of the healthiest individuals I know is a close friend who consistently prioritizes his physical and mental well-being. His commitment to a healthy lifestyle is evident in nearly every aspect of his daily routine. He follows a clean and balanced diet, choosing organic and nutrient-rich foods such as fresh vegetables, fruits, whole grains, and lean proteins. He deliberately avoids fast food and heavily processed meals, believing they compromise long-term health.
In addition to his dietary habits, he maintains a regular exercise regimen. He either goes to the gym for strength training or takes long walks in the park to stay active. This consistency not only helps him stay fit but also boosts his energy and mood. He’s equally disciplined about sleep—he typically goes to bed by 11 p.m. and wakes up at 5 a.m., ensuring he gets adequate rest to support his overall health.
What I admire most is his sense of balance and self-discipline. He doesn’t just focus on physical health; he also makes time for relaxation and mindfulness, which contributes to his emotional stability. His lifestyle has had a positive influence on me as well—his dedication inspires me to make healthier choices and stay committed to my own wellness goals.


3. Tell me everything you do in order to stay healthy.

Eating healthy is very popular these day and I am also follow this style. In order to keep healthy, I always try to eat healthy food. They can be organic vegetable and fruits, clean meat, egg and other nutritious food. They provide me all essential vitamin and nutrient as my demand. I dont like fast food or processed food that are not good for health and can ruin my body. Beside food, I also practice sport and exercise everyday. I engage in badminton and swimming club at my company. on weekend I usually go to the park near my house for walking. While doing exercise or sport I always keep hidrate, it is very important. Eating healthy now become an important part of my life, I help me improve my health and keep balace in life. 


4. How to you shop for healthy food? What kinds of things do you have to do to cook healthy food?
	Well, following a healthy lifestyle is popular these days. I always try to buy healthy food every day. I often go to the supermarket or a renowned grocery store for shopping and choose fresh, raw foods like lean meat, fish and vegetables. Other foods I consider good for health are fruits, milk, and cereals. They give me all the crucial vitamins and nutrients I need. In contrast, fast food is never my choice because I know that it is not good for my health and could ruin my body. Sometimes I also go to the market that is near my house to buy food; I usually buy food from someone that I know before. In my house, I prefer low-fat food or boiled dishes to fried dishes; otherwise, I usually try to use vegetable oil instead of animal fat while cooking. I think, low-fat food that are easy to digest and low in calories is better for health than others; it also restricts some diseases. In addition to selecting fresh and nutritious food, in my opinion, building a routine for eating is also important. It helps me a lot to improve and maintain my health.
	
5. Have you ever change habit lifestyle for your health. May be you start for workout or start eat healthy. Tell me the change that you made.



6. Tell me one thing that you did for health in details. What kind of impact did you have in your health? Tell me that affect did you have in your health.



7. What do people do to maintain their health? how do people exercise?

8. Differrent generations have different view of healthy? Some generations think people have to be skiny in order to healthy? How do your generations think people have to be like to be healthy? How is that compare to generations believe.
 
 
9. Tell about recent news story that you saw in daily healthy issues. Describe what was issue in detail. How was community react to the news.

10. Tell me the Gym you used to go in the past? what was that like? What facilities there, how it different from these day.

 =======================Internet==============
 1. what do people normally do on the internet? Do they play game, watch television or watch moviee. Tell all of things people do online.
 
 => The internet has become an essential part of modern life. People rely on it for many daily activities, and I believe it would be difficult to live without it. Online, people can study, shop, work, and entertain themselves. Of course, they also play games, watch movies, and stream television shows.
Personally, I use the internet every day for both work and relaxation. Since I’m a software engineer, the internet is crucial for my job. I use it to search for technical information, communicate with clients, and collaborate with colleagues from other countries. At home, I enjoy playing online games, browsing social media, and listening to music.
Overall, the internet has made life more convenient and efficient. It truly is one of the greatest inventions of our time.

 3. Tell me your early experience when surfing internet. What do remember particularly about experience.
 =>
 I use the internet every day now, but I still remember the first time I tried it. It was about five years ago, when I was in high school. At that time, I didn’t know much about how the internet worked. I went to the school’s computer room to search for information for a class assignment.
When I started searching, all the results came up in English. My English wasn’t very good back then, so I struggled to understand the content. It took me a while to figure out how to change the language settings to Vietnamese. Luckily, my teacher noticed I was having trouble and helped me fix it.
What I remember most was how fast the internet was and how much information I could find. It was really surprising to me. That experience made me realize how useful the internet could be—not just for studying, but also for entertainment and staying informed.

 
 4. Tell me how you use internet to get project done. what was the project about, how did internet help in project.
 =>
As a software engineer, I rely on the internet every day to complete my work efficiently. One recent example was a financial application I was developing last week. Toward the final stage of the project, I encountered a technical issue that I had never faced before. I wasn’t sure how to solve it, so I turned to the internet for help.
I searched for the error message and found several helpful articles and forum discussions. After reading through a few solutions, I identified one that closely matched my situation. I applied the suggested fix to my code, and fortunately, it resolved the problem. Thanks to the resources I found online, I was able to finish the project on time.
Overall, the internet is an essential tool in my job. It allows me to quickly find solutions, learn new techniques, and stay updated with the latest technologies. I honestly can’t imagine doing my work without it.

 
 5. I am sure you have things that you see on internet, talk about memorable post you saw on internet? Why it memorable for you?
 
 Yes, I surf internet everyday and I have seen many post on internet. But the most memorable post was a post that changed my life. It was a post appear on facebook when I felt so boring, I disapointed about life because I just got a bad result of an english exam. At that time I very bad at english and I used to want to give up at english. I thought that English is not for me, I can not absorb that language. But when I read the post, it said that english is a hard but interesting journey. It show an example about a person who used to terrible in english but with discipline and moviation, that person became an influencer and inspire many people in studying language. The post encourage me and motivate me to study english. Now, english is very interesting to me. I always wiling to learn and improve my ability. 
 
 6. Talk about the video that you watch on internet? what kinds of video do you like to watch, for fun, for work or for school. why do you like to watch those video. 
 
 Actually, I use internet everyday and watching video is also one of my routine. I often watch video at home in the evening. I watch video both for fun and for work. When I want to learning or find something helpful to my work I usually watch video about it. Because watching video not only give me information but also image and visuallization. I help me understand the information easier. Whereas I usually watch video for entertainment when I relax, I watch music video or funny video on youtube. It help me reduce stress alot, I feel more comfortable when I watch funny video. It help me recharge battery after a busy working day.
 
 7. What did you do on internet yesterday, what's website did you visit. Tell everything you did on internet yesterday. 
 8. Describe somethings memorable you saw online for work or for fun. maybe something impressive, unusual or meaningful to you, what was about it.
 9. what kinds of concern do people have about internet usability, it could be regarding safety, privacy, security. how have this concern affect to people online.
 
 Internet is become more popular today, More and more people use internet for work and entertainment. Along with some benefit that internet provide to user. People also concern about policies when use internet. These kinds of concern can be safety, privacy or security and especially about personal information. Because internet is easy to access and some website require user log in or enter personal information to use this page so a lot of users worry about their data being exposed. Those concern impact a lot to user behavior, they can be hesitate when using online and they also restrict some unauthorize website. I think people concern to internet usability is understandable because user information is very important, especially for sensitive information such as bank account, phone number or address.
 
 => “The internet has become increasingly popular today, with more and more people using it for work and entertainment. While the internet offers numerous benefits to users, there are also concerns related to policies and usage. These concerns primarily revolve around safety, privacy, and security, particularly when it comes to personal information. Given that the internet is easily accessible and many websites require user logins or the input of personal details, users often worry about their data being exposed. These concerns significantly impact user behavior—they may hesitate to engage online and might restrict access to unauthorized websites. It’s understandable that people are cautious about internet usability, especially when dealing with sensitive information such as bank accounts, phone numbers, or addresses.”
 
 10 . How is internet usage different among people in different age group. How was young people use internet. Discuss this matter in detail.
 
 => Internet is become more popular today and it is very easy to use for all people. But there are some different point in usage in different generations. For example, for old generation who approach to internet slowly, they often use internet to surfing social media or reading newspaper. They usually find difficulty using internet because of technology limitation. But for young people, they seem to be more agile(linh hoạt) in using  internet, they use internet in many things in life from work to entertainment, they can learn online, play game, create content or even shop online and booking. Because of technology awareness, they easy to control internet to serve their demand. And the demand in using internet is also more diverse than the old people. The different in usage between age group is understandable and internet is a helpful tool for all people. 
 
 => “The internet has become increasingly popular today, and it is very accessible for people of all ages. However, there are differences in how different generations use it. For example, older generations, who may approach the internet more slowly, often use it for social media browsing or reading news. They sometimes encounter difficulties due to technological limitations. On the other hand, young people are more adept at using the internet. They incorporate it into various aspects of their lives, from work to entertainment. They can learn online, play games, create content, shop, and make bookings. Thanks to their technology awareness, they can easily navigate the internet to meet their needs. Additionally, the demands for internet usage among young people are more diverse compared to older generations.”
 
 
 
 =================== Technology==================
 1. What kinds of technology do people typically use in your country. Do people use computer, cell phone or handheld devices. what are common form that you use?
 
 => Technology has become an important part of our life. Many technological devices that people can use nowadays. In my country, computer and cell phone is very popular. almost of adults people have their own cell phone. They use cellphone to communicate with other people, working, access internet or entertaininng. whereas computer is primarily use for work or studying. But they also use computer for playing game, especially is gamer.
 beside cellphone and computer, smartwatch is a famous device that is used theseday. smartwatch not only for watch time but also for connect to smartphone and tract health information. Some technology can be name as ear-phone, smart rings and so on. I supposed with the development of technology, more and more devices will be produce to serve people demand. They really helpful and convinient for people. 
 
 =============Transportation==============
 

1. How people get around in your country? What are some typical means of transportation to get around.

In my country, people have a variety of transportation options to get around, such as bikes, motorbikes, cars, and buses. Normally, people usually use motorbikes, buses, or their own cars to get around. Motorbikes are suitable for a large group of people because they are quite cheap and easy to use. Buses serve as public transportation and are common vehicles in cities or towns. Passengers have to pay for bus tickets, but the price is reasonable. Cars are at a higher level; people need to spend a lot of money to buy and maintain them. Additionally, people can use bikes or walk, especially children and students, due to safety and usability. For long distances, trains are a popular choice, especially for their speed and comfort.”

2. How did you travel when you were a  kid and how it is different from today?

Transportation has change a lot from the past until now. In the past, I usually commute by bicycles or walk. sometime I had chance to travel by motorbike, motorbike is faster and more comfort than bicycles. But today is different, I use motorbike to get around everyday. Because this kind of vehicle is increasingly popular. Sometime, for a long distance trip, I use public transportation as bus or train to commute, public transportation system have also expanded, offering more routes and better service. Beside that, car is a good options, it bring me the convenience and flexibility.

3. Problem relate to transportation often raise? How to deal with those problems? 

Yes, with the increase of number of transportation and population as well. problems related to transportation are common and tend to raised nowadays. Some problems are congestion, evironmental impact or safety. Traffic jam are major issue in many cities. it cause inconvience and discomfort  for people while commuting. Transportation is a significant source of polution, emision from vehicle impact to environment a lot. It also impact to human health. Whereas accidents and safety concerns are always a priority, the number of accident is increase significantly. Some solution to deal with those problem can be named as expanding public transportation or promoting electric vehicles to reduce emision, protect environment. Enforcing traffic laws, improving vehicel safety standards and investing in better infrastructure is a good way to reduce accident. 


================= Phone======================

1. What do you like most about your phone? Maybe camera or certain application? Tell me why you like this feature?

Yeah, smartphone is an important device for me, I use my phone everyday and there are many interesting feature and application on my phone. The application I like most is Facebook, it is a social media platform where I can connect with people around the world. I often post my daily activities there and share with my friends. Beside that, Facebook is a convinient application for communication and entertaining. I can read news, watch video, playgame and event make a phone call by Facebook. This application help me alot to connect with people, update news and relax. I surfing facebook everyday.

2. Tell me about the first phone you used. How is it different from today?

Well, I have been using phone for a long time. As I remember, I used phone for the first time when I was in high school. At that time, my phone was quite small with a phisical keyboard below the screen. The screen was also small. I only could make call and text-message with that phone. But now I am using a smartphone. It is very different from the old one. My current phone has a large screen without physical keyboard on surface and it only has some button as volume and power button. I feel more comfortable when using this phone. Beside that I can do tons of things with my current phone. I not only can make call but also play game, surfing internet, shopping online or even banking. With the development of technology, smartphone is more beautiful and convenience for user.

3. A trouble while using phone? What was that, how to deal with the problem. 

=> I have been using a smartphone for a long time. It very convinient for me but I also had a problem with myphone. When I was calling to my mom and talking, the call suddendly end without a reason, I was so supprise because I did not know why the problem happend. I try to make another phone call but it could not. After some minutes of thinking, I restart my phone and make a phone call. Fortunately, it was success. But for ensure the problem would not happend anymore, I took the phone to warranty center and asked technican checked the phone for me. After some hours of checking, they said that the main board of my phone was broken. They suggested me to replace it by the new one. I agree with that solution and eventually my phone could operate correctly.



additional 30 minutes, we were finally able to taste our meal. It was a memorable experience and a valuable lesson for us.”

===========================ROLE PLAY - STORE=============================
1. I'd like to give you a situation and ask you to act it out. You're at a clothing store and need to get some clothes. Ask three or four questions about the clothes you would like to buy.

		- Hi, I would like to buy some shirts for my friend birth day party, but this is the first time I come here. Can you suggest me something?
		- Thank you, what other kinds of shirts do you have? I usually wear shirt both at home and outside.
		- What do you think of the orange or green one, they so adorable. which one suits me better?
		- I prefer the green one to the orange because the color make me you relax and comfortable, whereas the orange one is too bright. Can I try it on before buying it.
		- Perfect, the green shirt completely fit me well, How much does the it cost?
		- great, that’s a good deal for such a high-quality shirt and renowned domestic brand. Thank you for your support.


2. I'd like to give you a situation and ask you to act it out. You see a sign at your favourite store that says that they are having a big sale. Go to the store and ask three or four questions to get as much as possible about the sale.

	- Hi I've just seen the big sale label at your store, right? I expect this day for a long time. When is the sale program begined?
	-oh, wonderful. What kind of mechandise will be discounted in this occasions? I look forward to Jean and shirt will be in the deal, I want to buy them before but the price too high.
	- oh great, Is there any condition to join the deal? What are the condition? I am a loyal customer of your store, so I feel very excited with this promotion program.
	- So, can I return or exchange items that not working properly? 
	- fantastic, I can't wait anymore till the begining day.

3. That's the end of situation. Have you ever bought something that did not work or was demaged? Tell me about your item you bought that dit not function properly or was damaged. Explain what the items was, what was wrong with it and what you did to resolve this situation.
	- Of course, it was summer day three years ago. When I was using my laptop without plugging in the battery, the power gradually decreased until the laptop was shut down. After that, I took the charger to charge the battery, but my laptop could not turn on again. I called the warranty service hotline, described the situation, and asked them to check the reason. They said that maybe there was a problem with the battery and it needed to be replaced with a new one. The cost of replacing it is quite high. Unfortunately, my PC was still under warranty, so the battery was replaced with a new one without extra charge. Unbelivable, It was so amazing. I used to worry about it very much because, at that time, I didn't have the money to get a new battery. After all, it seems like nothing happened with my PC. Until now, it's still a memorable moment in my university time.

4. I'd like to give you a situation and ask you to act it out. There is a newly opened store  in your neighborhood. Call your friend who knows about the new store and ask some questions about the store to get some information.

	- Hello I heard that there is a newly opened store next to our area, is it right?
	- Do you know anything about it?
	- What do they sell there? I hope it is a grocery store because the market is quite far from my house.
	- I plan to go there for store grand openning, do you want to go with me?
		It will be very exciting event and we can buy something with discount.
		of course, we will buy a small gift to congratulate them.
	- Oke I will pick you up at 7 pm. See you soon.

5. I'd like to give you a situation and ask you to act it out.Your friend told you about a food store that he or shoe goes to. Call your friend and ask about the food store to get some information.
	Hello, I remember you said you knew a food store that had good food, right? I plan to eat out with my girl friend but I dont what should we eat tonight.
	- Can you give me the name of the store, of course I also need its address to
	- How is the menu there? Are the dishes diverse?
	- I also concern about their services and the view to
	- Ohh, really I love restaurant that has table outside so we can enjoy the fresh air and see the sky too.
	How about the price there, is it reasonable.
	Yes, I believe that place is superb for a dating.
	Thanks you for you help.

====================Role play - travel=========================

1/ You are planning on going on a trip. Call a travel agency and ask 3-4 questions about the trip you want to go on.


=> Hi, I plan to go to Nha Trang in September, so I call you to ask for some information about the trip. 
The first is, What are the famous attractions in Nha Trang? I'd never been there before.
I'm planning to travel with my family; I'm looking up a package trip. Do you have any suggestions for me?
They sound great, but how about the expenditure for a five-day trip?
Is the breakfast or hotel service included in the package price?
Oh, really, I think the cost is reasonable.
the information is enough for me. I will contact you later. Thanks.




2/ You need to buy a train ticket to go visit your friend weekend. Go to the ticket counter at the train station and ask 3-4 questions to get the information you need to book a ticket.


Hi, I am about to go to Ha Noi to visit my friend. I would like to get a ticket. When will the train start on Saturday morning?
How long does it take? Oh, I don't expect it to be fast like that.
I'm concerning about the expense of a round-trip ticket. How about it? I will be back here on Tuesday.
Do you provide food on the train? What kinds of food do you have?
that great, It's so convenient.
One more question. What can I do if I forget my ticket?
Oh, I got it. Actually, this is the first time I travel by train, and I hope will be a nice trip. Thanks so much.




3/ You are planning on going on a trip to a country where your friend lives. Call your friend and ask about the geography there. And then, ask 2-3 questions regarding your travel plans.


Hello, what are you doing? I'm so excited about the trip to your home.
Can you tell a bit about the geography there? where do you like to go the most?
Oh, I think it's a wonderful destination.
As you know, I will stay there for a week. On the first day, I think we should go somewhere around your home. What do you think about it?
And then, do you like a sort of trip to the city center? Yeah, it will be interesting.
Do you have any ideas for the next few days? Immerse yourself in the sea, take a sunbath, and enjoy the delicious seafood. It's so amazing, right?
Oh, I can't wait any longer until that day.
Now, I have to go prepare something for this trip. See you soon. Bye.


4/ You need to rent a car for about a week. Call the rental agency and ask several questions about the car you want to rent. 

- Hi, I have a plan to go to Ha Noi for a week, so I want to rent a car for my trip.
- I would like to rent a car for 5 persons. Do you have any car  like that.
- Yeah, How abou the cost for a week. is the price include car insurance
- Oh the price is reasonable but the like the car with black shell
- Because I'm going on a long trip so I want to check the car before renting it
- Oke, please ship the car on Monday. I will deposit ten percent if the car is good
- Thank you , see you soon.